#CLI Interface

CLI Interface is a prototype for a next generation command line module interface for 3DSlicer, CTK and CTK-based projects.

It tries to overcome a few limitations of the current status quo in a couple of ways:

* it provides a replacement for GenerateCLP, allowing easy addition of new tags and dynamic querying of parameters (as opposed to the current, monolythic C++ macro-based solution)
* it allows for parameters to be either parsed from the command line arguments as well as queried through standard i/o. 

The main motivation is to allow command line modules to query some of the parameters during their execution by emitting a query XML string in standard output (similarly to what happens now for progress reporting) and have the input get back on standard input (e.g. by a user on the command line, by a user through a 3DSlicer widget or by another process on its standard output), parsed and assigned to a variable during execution.

This would allow CLI modules to be _mildly_ interactive (e.g. specify a threshold on the base of an incremental result, or select a point on an intermediate image), greatly expanding the reach of CLI module use cases and maintaining interoperability of CLI modules among CTK-compliant applications.

The code uses tclap for parsing command line arguments and TinyXML2 for parsing XML.

You can find a sample of what a command line module might look like in the future under Testing.

This project started as experiment with Steve Pieper at the [Bologna 2012 CTK Hackfest](http://www.commontk.org/index.php/CTK-Hackfest-Dec-2012).

## TODO

__This is work in progress.__

There are several parts that still need to be implemented, some of which have to be ported from GenerateCLP:

* Unpacking complex arguments
* Generating query XML fragments
* Embedding the XML within the executable
* Populating ModuleDescriptionParser data structures
* Adding process information, etc needed by callees

Essentially, a module should be able to get its variables either from command line or from stdin. In the latter case, values would be provided by the callee after the module has queried them in its stdout.

Variables that have to be provided at stdin are the ones declared in the XML module description (i.e. no other variables are allowed). Similarly, any intermediate outputs that are needed for the informing the callee about what's being queried have to be defined as outputs in the XML module description and provided in the query XML fragment (either as text in a <value> tag or as filenames of a file written by the module, in the same way outputs are generated by command line modules).


